Tweet 4: I don’t have all the answers (yet).
Tweet 5: My definition of an investment is the following: anything that you purchase primarily to either maintain or grow your wealth.
Tweet 6: You can accumulate all the wealth you want but if it’s invested incorrectly it’s going to evaporate rather quickly.
Tweet 7: Most blogs give you the exact steps of how to invest in an index fund without really explaining why. Not in a satisfactory manner at least. If they do offer any argument to the audience, it tends to be half-baked.
Tweet 9: “Life is short!” No, it’s not. It’s literally the longest thing you will ever do. Life is a reaaaally long game.
Tweet 10: We are looking for a way to assess most of our available investment options, picture most of the possible outcomes, and act in such a way as to reduce as much as possible the chance of an unacceptable outcome.
Tweet 11: It is better to still be in the harbour than at the bottom of the ocean.
Tweet 12: Details don’t mean shit if your portfolio crashes in value just before you planned to make a big withdrawal. Getting an extra 0.5% out on your savings is cool but irrelevant if you have the wrong lifetime investment strategy.
Tweet 13: Things that aren’t an investment: some short-term stock trading (retail), most sports betting, visits to the casino, buying new cars, most purchases of clothes, etc.
Tweet 15: Things are investments: some art, some wine, some watches, cash under your mattress, money in your savings account that is currently yielding 0.01%, bitcoin (sometimes), Easyjet PLC, FTSE 100 ETFs, non-index-linked GILTS (good luck with that), etc.
Tweet 16: Having a long-term lens acts as a psychological buffer. If you think about your whole lifetime as your investment horizon, yearly fluctuations really do become meaningless.
Tweet 17: “The real risk in holding a portfolio is that it might not provide its owner, either during the interim or at some terminal date or both, with the cash he requires to make essential outlays” – Robert Jeffrey.
Tweet 18: Lifetime investing is one of the most important things you will do in your life so you better figure out how to do it properly.
Tweet 19: Inflation should be the main thing all investors are worried about.
Tweet 20: Single-point estimators can be useful. But the fact remains that when you reduce the distribution of possible outcomes to a single number, you lose information.
Tweet 21: People change. Are you the same person you were 10 years ago? I hope not. Is your life really that boring that you know for a fact that none of your plans will change over the net 10 years? Again, I hope not.
Tweet 22: Jorian and Goetzmann studied the global performance of stock markets in the twentieth century. They found that for all countries looked at from 1921 to 1996 aside from the US, the median real return was a mediocre 0.8%.
Tweet 24: The population can not perpetually increase. We are already seeing this in developed nations. A lower population means fewer consumers of your product, less revenue, and lower profits.
Tweet 25: As soon as we understand the dangers of certain actions we can start to mitigate the risks associated with said actions.
Tweet 26: Note: if you have non-human discipline and psychopathic commitment to not liquidating your account, this rule may not be applicable to you. I wouldn’t want to go for a drink with you, but you may not need to worry about liquidating investments unexpectedly.
Tweet 27: “The market has historically risen 5% and will therefore always go up 5% in the long-run”. This is a dangerous assumption to make, for a variety of reasons.
Tweet 28: Broadly speaking, I see no clear reason why it will necessarily be the case that the stock market should go up in the long-term. I see even fewer reasons as to why markets should return some set level of return “based on empirical evidence”.
Tweet 29: Life happens before the limit.
Tweet 29: Life happens before the limit.
Tweet 30: Trying to eradicate the business cycle is an insult to the organic nature of the economic system.
Tweet 31: If I draw 10 balls out of a bag and the first 9 have the value 1 but the last ball has the value of 10 then the average of the balls is 1.9. Investors in Ball Bag Ltd. think they’re getting a value of 1.9 when they invest but, in reality, they’re probably going to get 1.
Tweet 32: This isn’t a backtest. This isn’t an academic exercise. This isn’t theory. If you can access your account, you are always in danger of liquidating your positions at some point for some reason.
Tweet 33: Looking at history we can see that some markets have not risen in 50-100 year periods. I don’t see why this can’t happen again.
Tweet 34: Growth at all costs via monetary and fiscal intervention severely distorts the natural processes of the economy. This sweeps risk in the system under the carpet and leads to ever-larger catastrophes.
Tweet 35: Whenever we use empirical analysis for discovery rather than disconfirmation, we find ourselves on shaky ground. In most cases, we can only give our best estimate and acknowledge that we could very well be wrong.
Tweet 36: If your ageing mother needs to pay for urgent medical attention I hope you don’t deny her this because it doesn’t fall in line with your investment strategy.
Tweet 37: Do I believe the stock market of any single country is guaranteed, or close to guaranteed, to rise over a 50-100 year period? No. For the global market as a whole, however, this is less clear.
Tweet 38: Price does not always reflect intrinsic value and certain investors have the ability to consistently profit from this mis-pricing. Those aware of the pitfalls of investing in active funds may be able to select the right funds, and may be able to beat the market by doing so.
Tweet 39: When you invest in a Global Index Fund, you’re essentially investing in North America, Western Europe, China and Japan.
Tweet 40: It seems arrogant to assume we know the future.
Tweet 41: If your Index Fund decreases by 50%, you still in? What about 70%? 90%? Of course, everyone says they would never sell (“Yeah bro, I would just buy more!”). In reality, you might.
Tweet 42: You’re less likely to do stupid things when you make decisions with your whole lifetime in mind. You’re less likely to panic, selling when everyone else is or buying when everyone else is.
Tweet 43: Let’s say some managers can consistently out-perform the market due to skill (I believe this to be true). The question now becomes whether it’s possible to identify these out-performers a priori.
Tweet 44: Strategy is derived from principles, not the other way round.
Tweet 45: I don’t think most investors should be looking at active asset management as a viable investment option. There are simply too many traps, too many ways to be conned and too many ways to lose money.
Tweet 46: Assuming you are going to be spending the majority of your life in one country, you should to be exposed to the fortunes of that country.
Tweet 47: The market changes. Investors adapt. Specifically, the market is very good at destroying profitable strategies because as soon as a profitable strategy is known, it is instantly eroded as more and more investors attempt to exploit it.
Tweet 48: Just because something is working for some people, it doesn’t mean you should jump on the bandwagon.
Tweet 49: Determining whether a fund will have exceptional performance before it does is difficult. To do this, you need to be able to distinguish between out-performance due to luck and out-performance due to skill.
Tweet 50: We must ask ourselves how we can invest to reduce the probability of an unacceptable outcome at any point over our lifetime.
Tweet 51: Don’t waste too much time on things financial. Good financial behaviour is mostly about the processes you have in place, these require only a few hours a month to manage.
Tweet 55: Give us a good-enough story and patterns that are later validated and watch all attempts at evaluating intrinsic value fly out of the window quicker than a cheating neighbour.
Tweet 55: Give us a good-enough story and patterns that are later validated and watch all attempts at evaluating intrinsic value fly out of the window quicker than a cheating neighbour.
Tweet 56: Although it wasn’t a bubble, there was something bubble-like about the Bernie Madoff Ponzi Scheme. It seems obvious now that the returns couldn’t be maintained and yet his investors included a whole host of reputable institutions such as HSBC and RBS.
Tweet 57: Owning a property is the dream. But should it be? Most begin this financial journey without actually contemplating if it’s a wise financial decision or not.
Tweet 58: Evolutionary speaking, if everyone else is doing something, it’s probably a good idea even if the reason for doing so isn’t immediately obvious. In hunter-gatherer societies, if all your mates start running, but you don’t know why, it’s probably best to start running anyway.
Tweet 59: “Fuck it”, you say to yourself, “I’m in”. FOMO has defeated you again.
Tweet 60: People buy first and construct reasons for doing so after the fact.
Tweet 61: Bubbles have a kind of gravity: as the mass of investors in the bubble increases, the more those who haven’t invested are more likely to do so. These investors add to the bubble’s gravity, increasing its pull.
Tweet 62: Most young people (aside from the lucky bastards who got rich) who want to buy a house are faced with the same seemingly-unsolvable problem: lack of capital. Luckily, in finance, there is a well-established, tried-and-tested, trump card in this situation: leverage.
Tweet 63: History shows us what can happen, not what will happen, not even necessarily what is likely to happen. 
Tweet 64: We are greedy and envious creatures. If your friends and getting rich, you certainly don’t want to miss out.
Tweet 65: In general, ‘dumb’ people are not as dumb as you think they are and ‘smart’ people are not as smart as you think they are.
Tweet 68: Our brain processes “the price has risen dramatically for the last 3 years in a row” and infers from this that “the price will rise next year”.
Tweet 69: As a financial transaction, owning vs. renting is unique. For a start, it’s probably one of the biggest decisions you will ever make.
Tweet 70: The market continuously self-corrects through this relenting mechanism of price discovery.
Tweet 72: Managing your portfolio is about managing the risks associated with your portfolio. First, ensure you aren’t taking risks you cannot afford to take. Returns come second.
Tweet 73: First try and understand the reasons for the correlation and then check that the correlation holds across time (out-of-sample data) and space (different geographies and assets).
Tweet 74: Risk refers to contexts in which the generating function is known. Uncertain domains encapsulate everything else.
Tweet 75: Could you imagine a world in which Google is viewed as a safer investment than the US government? I certainly can.
Tweet 77: For memes: take a small position and have clear, strict rules about how and when to liquidate your position.
Tweet 78: The purpose of investing is to make your life better. If a position is causing you to stay up at night, spend all day looking at the price, or pay even less attention to your boyfriend's boring stories, it’s probably not worth it.
Tweet 79: Uncertain environments may call for some other technique to manage risk outside of probability and statistics.
Tweet 80: See what risks you can afford to take before worrying about potential gain.
Tweet 81: Your savings rate is as important, if not more, that your growth rate.
Tweet 82: The sequence and timing of returns matters just as much as their sizes.
Tweet 83: When it comes to savings rate vs growth rate, there is no out-and-out obvious winner. What does seem to be true is that the effects of the growth rate dominate as the time horizon is extended.
Tweet 84: If probabilities are largely unknown and we are faced with a lot of uncertainty, we must focus on outcomes rather than the probability of these outcomes. The former is significantly more graspable than the latter.
Tweet 84: If probabilities are largely unknown and we are faced with a lot of uncertainty, we must focus on outcomes rather than the probability of these outcomes. The former is significantly more graspable than the latter.
Tweet 85: When incentives are involved, information gets distorted. And incentives are always involved.
Tweet 94: Data can be massaged to sell anything one is trying to flog.
Tweet 95: A rigid top-down approach can give you a false sense of security, especially if your assumptions are slightly off.
Tweet 98: No one is trying to solve retail investing.
Tweet 100: Everything has a degree of uncertainty attached to it.
Tweet 101: Worrying about optimising for tax efficiency, small differences in fees, choosing between two slightly different ETFs, etc. is irrelevant if your over-arching investment strategy is wrong.
Tweet 102: Goals? Who needs goals? The emphasis is on building good habits – what you actually do with the money is secondary.
Tweet 103: Ambitious goals can lead to over-investing. Chasing returns is a fool’s game and using ‘required return’ to make investment decisions can lead to disaster.
Tweet 104: Focusing on details and small wins can get you in trouble. Anytime you focus on small gains and optimisation you run the risk of arriving at a local maximum.
Tweet 105: In some ways it’s an intractable problem: you can’t really solve retail investing. This doesn’t mean that it’s not worth spending time thinking about.
Tweet 106: One should always be open to the possibility that principles can change - and the degree of belief surrounding those principles can change, too.
Tweet 107: When you participate in retail investing you’re actually making two separate investments. Sure, you invest in shares, bonds, real estate, options, shitcoins, etc. but you also invest your time, energy, and mental focus into the act of deciding how to invest.
Tweet 108: Poor calibration can lead to bad decisions. If your friends refuse to save, for example, you could be chuffed with your monthly £50 in savings when in fact this is probably painfully inadequate.
Tweet 109: The main benefit of a top-down approach is that it gives you something to work towards. It gives you a reason for why you can’t go out this Saturday or why you and your boring boyfriend-soon-to-be-husband decided not to go on holiday this year.
Tweet 110: In reality,  things are a lot more normal, stable, and homogenous. Everyone’s finances look roughly the same.
Tweet 113: This field, like most, is largely composed of opinions. Probabilities are unknown. General advice is pretty useless. No one knows the answers.
Tweet 114: It seems to me that those that spend more and more time thinking about investing can end up over-thinking, over-committing, over-paying…but not over-performing.
Tweet 115: According to the FCA, 32% of total savings and investments are held by ~1% of the UK population. 9% have no savings at all. ⅓ have less than £600 saved. Even more – 41% – don’t have enough savings to live for a month without income.
Tweet 116: How do savers utilise freedom to choose? By not making a choice. Research suggests that up to 98% of defined contribution beneficiaries invest in the default fund
Tweet 117: As with most things in life, when two diametrically opposed viewpoints both seem reasonable, the truth is probably somewhere in the middle.
Tweet 120: We are playing not to lose, first and foremost. Prudence is a necessity.
Tweet 121: How was the data collected? What’s the time period? What are the units? Why are the axes like that? What is the story they are trying to tell?
Tweet 123: No, “trust in science” doesn’t always work if this means believing the results of every “statistically significant” experiment.
Tweet 125: Financial data tends to arrive problem-free. The closing price of Tesco is the closing price of Tesco, it’s pretty hard to fuck that up.
Tweet 126: No one said you have to invest. No one is putting a gun to your head and forcing you to buy FTSE 100 ETFs.
Tweet 128: The richest man in the world would give up all of his money to be healthy if he was on his deathbed due to poor health choices. The best football player in the world at any given time might still be unhappy if his wife cheats on him or his mother doesn’t like him.
Tweet 129: What if asset X suddenly drops massively in value? What if the company goes bust? What if the government devalues its currency or defaults on its loans?
Tweet 130: Is it harder to predict the price of BT or a global ETF? It’s not immediately obvious. The price BT surely has fewer determinants but is probably more sensitive to random events. It’s hard not to see a global ETF increasing in price.
Tweet 131: Numbers are much less effectively used when it comes to representing data. We would much rather see a pretty picture – it’s easier to process and looks faaaaar more convincing.
Tweet 132: Sleepless nights and perpetual anxiety really aren’t worth it in most circumstances.
Tweet 134: The statistician is not really concerned with why smoking causes lung cancer, only that there is statistically significant evidence that it does.
Tweet 134: The statistician is not really concerned with why smoking causes lung cancer, only that there is statistically significant evidence that it does.
Tweet 135: You only get one chance at lifetime wealth creation.
Tweet 136: The same set of data, even without the use of statistics, can be used to tell multiple different stories. Many of these will be wrong.
Tweet 137: Every decision has some type of cognitive load. Minimising superfluous decisions allows your brain to focus on more important things – like who will win Love Island this year, whether you did actually leave the oven on, is wearing white jeans too much a social faux pas, etc.