What is lifetime investing exactly? Simply put, it’s the mechanism by which you build wealth over the course of your lifetime. How can you do lifetime wealth accumulation? The answer is lifetime investing.
I consider health, wealth and happiness to be the fundamental components of life. Lifetime investing a huuuge part of that wealth component.
Don’t know what an ETF is? You will find your answer on google. What savings account is the best? There’s a subreddit for that. Which FTSE 100 ETF has the lowest fees? Someone wrote a blog post on it.
Having some fixed date to work towards (retirement, for example), can be easier both psychologically and strategically. Alas, life is complex. It is better to learn to work with this uncertainty than to ignore it or try to correct it.
I don’t have all the answers (yet).
My definition of an investment is the following: anything that you purchase primarily to either maintain or grow your wealth.
You can accumulate all the wealth you want but if it’s invested incorrectly it’s going to evaporate rather quickly.
Most blogs give you the exact steps of how to invest in an index fund without really explaining why. Not in a satisfactory manner at least. If they do offer any argument to the audience, it tends to be half-baked.
In my view, if you purchase a vintage Rolex Submariner for pleasure, that’s not an investment. However, if you purchase that very same watch and store it in a safe with the hope that it will be worth more in 20 years time, that is an investment.
“Life is short!” No, it’s not. It’s literally the longest thing you will ever do. Life is a reaaaally long game.
We are looking for a way to assess most of our available investment options, picture most of the possible outcomes, and act in such a way as to reduce as much as possible the chance of an unacceptable outcome.
It is better to still be in the harbour than at the bottom of the ocean.
Details don’t mean shit if your portfolio crashes in value just before you planned to make a big withdrawal. Getting an extra 0.5% out on your savings is cool but irrelevant if you have the wrong lifetime investment strategy.
Things that aren’t an investment: some short-term stock trading (retail), most sports betting, visits to the casino, buying new cars, most purchases of clothes, etc.
Things are investments: some art, some wine, some watches, cash under your mattress, money in your savings account that is currently yielding 0.01%, bitcoin (sometimes), Easyjet PLC, FTSE 100 ETFs, non-index-linked GILTS (good luck with that), etc.
Having a long-term lens acts as a psychological buffer. If you think about your whole lifetime as your investment horizon, yearly fluctuations really do become meaningless.
“The real risk in holding a portfolio is that it might not provide its owner, either during the interim or at some terminal date or both, with the cash he requires to make essential outlays” – Robert Jeffrey.
Lifetime investing is one of the most important things you will do in your life so you better figure out how to do it properly.
Inflation should be the main thing all investors are worried about.
Single-point estimators can be useful. But the fact remains that when you reduce the distribution of possible outcomes to a single number, you lose information.
People change. Are you the same person you were 10 years ago? I hope not. Is your life really that boring that you know for a fact that none of your plans will change over the net 10 years? Again, I hope not.
Jorian and Goetzmann studied the global performance of stock markets in the twentieth century. They found that for all countries looked at from 1921 to 1996 aside from the US, the median real return was a mediocre 0.8%.
The government and the central bank treat the economy like a machine that can be fine-tuned and controlled. These institutions have been playing with monetary and fiscal policy in a reckless manner.
The population can not perpetually increase. We are already seeing this in developed nations. A lower population means fewer consumers of your product, less revenue, and lower profits.
As soon as we understand the dangers of certain actions we can start to mitigate the risks associated with said actions.
Note: if you have non-human discipline and psychopathic commitment to not liquidating your account, this rule may not be applicable to you. I wouldn’t want to go for a drink with you, but you may not need to worry about liquidating investments unexpectedly.
“The market has historically risen 5% and will therefore always go up 5% in the long-run”. This is a dangerous assumption to make, for a variety of reasons.
Broadly speaking, I see no clear reason why it will necessarily be the case that the stock market should go up in the long-term. I see even fewer reasons as to why markets should return some set level of return “based on empirical evidence”.
Life happens before the limit.
Trying to eradicate the business cycle is an insult to the organic nature of the economic system.
If I draw 10 balls out of a bag and the first 9 have the value 1 but the last ball has the value of 10 then the average of the balls is 1.9. Investors in Ball Bag Ltd. think they’re getting a value of 1.9 when they invest but, in reality, they’re probably going to get 1.
This isn’t a backtest. This isn’t an academic exercise. This isn’t theory. If you can access your account, you are always in danger of liquidating your positions at some point for some reason.
Looking at history we can see that some markets have not risen in 50-100 year periods. I don’t see why this can’t happen again.
Growth at all costs via monetary and fiscal intervention severely distorts the natural processes of the economy. This sweeps risk in the system under the carpet and leads to ever-larger catastrophes.
Whenever we use empirical analysis for discovery rather than disconfirmation, we find ourselves on shaky ground. In most cases, we can only give our best estimate and acknowledge that we could very well be wrong.
If your ageing mother needs to pay for urgent medical attention I hope you don’t deny her this because it doesn’t fall in line with your investment strategy.
Do I believe the stock market of any single country is guaranteed, or close to guaranteed, to rise over a 50-100 year period? No. For the global market as a whole, however, this is less clear.
Price does not always reflect intrinsic value and certain investors have the ability to consistently profit from this mis-pricing. Those aware of the pitfalls of investing in active funds may be able to select the right funds, and may be able to beat the market by doing so.
When you invest in a Global Index Fund, you’re essentially investing in North America, Western Europe, China and Japan.
It seems arrogant to assume we know the future.
If your Index Fund decreases by 50%, you still in? What about 70%? 90%? Of course, everyone says they would never sell (“Yeah bro, I would just buy more!”). In reality, you might.
You’re less likely to do stupid things when you make decisions with your whole lifetime in mind. You’re less likely to panic, selling when everyone else is or buying when everyone else is.
Let’s say some managers can consistently out-perform the market due to skill (I believe this to be true). The question now becomes whether it’s possible to identify these out-performers a priori.
Strategy is derived from principles, not the other way round.
I don’t think most investors should be looking at active asset management as a viable investment option. There are simply too many traps, too many ways to be conned and too many ways to lose money.
Assuming you are going to be spending the majority of your life in one country, you should to be exposed to the fortunes of that country.
The market changes. Investors adapt. Specifically, the market is very good at destroying profitable strategies because as soon as a profitable strategy is known, it is instantly eroded as more and more investors attempt to exploit it.
Just because something is working for some people, it doesn’t mean you should jump on the bandwagon.
Determining whether a fund will have exceptional performance before it does is difficult. To do this, you need to be able to distinguish between out-performance due to luck and out-performance due to skill.
We must ask ourselves how we can invest to reduce the probability of an unacceptable outcome at any point over our lifetime.
Don’t waste too much time on things financial. Good financial behaviour is mostly about the processes you have in place, these require only a few hours a month to manage.
We are patter-recognition machines. We are so good at it that we see patterns that aren’t actually there.
From tulip-mania in the Netherlands in the early 17th century to the railway mania in Britain of the mid-1800s, to the stock market bubble of the roaring 20s in the US and crypto today, bubbles are common and seem to be getting increasingly more so.
As Keynes said, “Worldly wisdom teaches that it is better for reputation to fail conventionally than to succeed unconventionally”.
Give us a good-enough story and patterns that are later validated and watch all attempts at evaluating intrinsic value fly out of the window quicker than a cheating neighbour.
Although it wasn’t a bubble, there was something bubble-like about the Bernie Madoff Ponzi Scheme. It seems obvious now that the returns couldn’t be maintained and yet his investors included a whole host of reputable institutions such as HSBC and RBS.
Owning a property is the dream. But should it be? Most begin this financial journey without actually contemplating if it’s a wise financial decision or not.
Evolutionary speaking, if everyone else is doing something, it’s probably a good idea even if the reason for doing so isn’t immediately obvious. In hunter-gatherer societies, if all your mates start running, but you don’t know why, it’s probably best to start running anyway.
“Fuck it”, you say to yourself, “I’m in”. FOMO has defeated you again.
People buy first and construct reasons for doing so after the fact.
Bubbles have a kind of gravity: as the mass of investors in the bubble increases, the more those who haven’t invested are more likely to do so. These investors add to the bubble’s gravity, increasing its pull.
Most young people (aside from the lucky bastards who got rich) who want to buy a house are faced with the same seemingly-unsolvable problem: lack of capital. Luckily, in finance, there is a well-established, tried-and-tested, trump card in this situation: leverage.
History shows us what can happen, not what will happen, not even necessarily what is likely to happen.
We are greedy and envious creatures. If your friends and getting rich, you certainly don’t want to miss out.
In general, ‘dumb’ people are not as dumb as you think they are and ‘smart’ people are not as smart as you think they are.
Although you are likely to spend less money renting, this isn’t our primary concern. What we are really interested in is - what is the better deal?
Much of what we know we can’t express in words and doesn’t seem logical on a surface level.
Our brain processes “the price has risen dramatically for the last 3 years in a row” and infers from this that “the price will rise next year”.
As a financial transaction, owning vs. renting is unique. For a start, it’s probably one of the biggest decisions you will ever make.
The market continuously self-corrects through this relenting mechanism of price discovery.
What, exactly, is the logical reason why adding observations adds certainty to our conclusions?
Managing your portfolio is about managing the risks associated with your portfolio. First, ensure you aren’t taking risks you cannot afford to take. Returns come second.
First try and understand the reasons for the correlation and then check that the correlation holds across time (out-of-sample data) and space (different geographies and assets).
Risk refers to contexts in which the generating function is known. Uncertain domains encapsulate everything else.
Could you imagine a world in which Google is viewed as a safer investment than the US government? I certainly can.
The real world is not a laboratory; experimental conditions change mid-way through the “experiment”. This leads to overconfidence in inductive conclusions.
For memes: take a small position and have clear, strict rules about how and when to liquidate your position.
The purpose of investing is to make your life better. If a position is causing you to stay up at night, spend all day looking at the price, or pay even less attention to your boyfriend's boring stories, it’s probably not worth it.
Uncertain environments may call for some other technique to manage risk outside of probability and statistics.
See what risks you can afford to take before worrying about potential gain.
Your savings rate is as important, if not more, that your growth rate.
The sequence and timing of returns matters just as much as their sizes.
When it comes to savings rate vs growth rate, there is no out-and-out obvious winner. What does seem to be true is that the effects of the growth rate dominate as the time horizon is extended.
If probabilities are largely unknown and we are faced with a lot of uncertainty, we must focus on outcomes rather than the probability of these outcomes. The former is significantly more graspable than the latter.
When incentives are involved, information gets distorted. And incentives are always involved.
One does not invest to make wealth. If you want to make wealth, there are plenty of other ways to do it. Invest to preserve/nurture wealth, not create it.
Assuming that one can improve significantly by committing time/effort, is this time/effort commitment worth it in terms of increased return? Vital, neglected question. Again, in most cases, I would imagine the answer is no.
I question how useful people learning about complex financial products is to their pension investments or their personal finance structure.
Turns out saving is fairly important.
If you are saving for retirement, you have to avoid taking risks that might make your pot worth a lot less than you need it to be worth when you need to access it.
People literally get paid billions of pounds to go from a rate of return of 5% to 10%. And they still fail, most of the time. Going from a savings rate of 5% to 10% requires some minor lifestyle adjustments.
Retail investors are agile. Most professionals have the turning circle of a double-decker bus.
Even if you’re able to generate pretty remarkable returns for a sustained period of time (very, very unlikely), it doesn’t matter if you’ve got nothing substantial to grow.
Data can be massaged to sell anything one is trying to flog.
A rigid top-down approach can give you a false sense of security, especially if your assumptions are slightly off.
With the wrong principles, you aren’t going to succeed regardless of how flawless your execution is.
Don’t know how to invest? Search the internet. Think it’s too expensive? Use a 0-commission broker. Don’t have much capital? You can start with £1.
No one is trying to solve retail investing.
In fact, this increase in knowledge can lead to worse returns. Higher confidence in decisions leads to over-exposure in positions. It also typically results in over-trading with the resulting costs harming returns.
Everything has a degree of uncertainty attached to it.
Worrying about optimising for tax efficiency, small differences in fees, choosing between two slightly different ETFs, etc. is irrelevant if your over-arching investment strategy is wrong.
Goals? Who needs goals? The emphasis is on building good habits – what you actually do with the money is secondary.
Ambitious goals can lead to over-investing. Chasing returns is a fool’s game and using ‘required return’ to make investment decisions can lead to disaster.
Focusing on details and small wins can get you in trouble. Anytime you focus on small gains and optimisation you run the risk of arriving at a local maximum.
In some ways it’s an intractable problem: you can’t really solve retail investing. This doesn’t mean that it’s not worth spending time thinking about.
One should always be open to the possibility that principles can change - and the degree of belief surrounding those principles can change, too.
When you participate in retail investing you’re actually making two separate investments. Sure, you invest in shares, bonds, real estate, options, shitcoins, etc. but you also invest your time, energy, and mental focus into the act of deciding how to invest.
Poor calibration can lead to bad decisions. If your friends refuse to save, for example, you could be chuffed with your monthly £50 in savings when in fact this is probably painfully inadequate.
The main benefit of a top-down approach is that it gives you something to work towards. It gives you a reason for why you can’t go out this Saturday or why you and your boring boyfriend-soon-to-be-husband decided not to go on holiday this year.
In reality,  things are a lot more normal, stable, and homogenous. Everyone’s finances look roughly the same.
You don’t want to be the guy with 7 figures in the bank who still drinks carling tinnies, even though you don’t like the taste, just because they are marginally cheaper.
Although we will not be able to arrive at some formal definitive proof, we can still increase the probability that our solution is correct (or less likely to be disastrous).
This field, like most, is largely composed of opinions. Probabilities are unknown. General advice is pretty useless. No one knows the answers.
It seems to me that those that spend more and more time thinking about investing can end up over-thinking, over-committing, over-paying…but not over-performing.
According to the FCA, 32% of total savings and investments are held by ~1% of the UK population. 9% have no savings at all. ⅓ have less than £600 saved. Even more – 41% – don’t have enough savings to live for a month without income.
How do savers utilise freedom to choose? By not making a choice. Research suggests that up to 98% of defined contribution beneficiaries invest in the default fund
As with most things in life, when two diametrically opposed viewpoints both seem reasonable, the truth is probably somewhere in the middle.
Investment platforms are becoming the dominant force in retail investing – the market has doubled since 2013 from £250bn to £500bn in assets under administration.
We are playing not to lose, first and foremost. Prudence is a necessity.
How was the data collected? What’s the time period? What are the units? Why are the axes like that? What is the story they are trying to tell?
What about the non-financial factors that affect financial decisions?
No, “trust in science” doesn’t always work if this means believing the results of every “statistically significant” experiment.
Just because the market returned 10% over the last 20 years, doesn’t mean that you did. You may have bought and sold at different times or transaction costs and taxes may have reduced your returns.
Financial data tends to arrive problem-free. The closing price of Tesco is the closing price of Tesco, it’s pretty hard to fuck that up.
No one said you have to invest. No one is putting a gun to your head and forcing you to buy FTSE 100 ETFs.
We are bad at estimating: research has found that we can’t estimate the calories we consume and expend exercising, for example. And we are over-confident about these bad estimations.
The richest man in the world would give up all of his money to be healthy if he was on his deathbed due to poor health choices. The best football player in the world at any given time might still be unhappy if his wife cheats on him or his mother doesn’t like him.
What if asset X suddenly drops massively in value? What if the company goes bust? What if the government devalues its currency or defaults on its loans?
Is it harder to predict the price of BT or a global ETF? It’s not immediately obvious. The price BT surely has fewer determinants but is probably more sensitive to random events. It’s hard not to see a global ETF increasing in price.
Numbers are much less effectively used when it comes to representing data. We would much rather see a pretty picture – it’s easier to process and looks faaaaar more convincing.
Sleepless nights and perpetual anxiety really aren’t worth it in most circumstances.
“Eating kidney beans increases your chance of getting kidney cancer by 10%!”. If your chance of getting kidney cancer is 10/100000, kidney beans will increase your chance of contracting kidney cancer to a whopping 11/100000.
The statistician is not really concerned with why smoking causes lung cancer, only that there is statistically significant evidence that it does.
You only get one chance at lifetime wealth creation.
The same set of data, even without the use of statistics, can be used to tell multiple different stories. Many of these will be wrong.
It just took me over a year to transfer a pension.
The pursuit of inter-temporal happiness. You want to be as “happy” as you can be for the most amount of your life as possible.

In 1957 the London Stock Exchange lifted the ban on unit trust advertising, which promptly exploded in popularity. 51 of these trusts managed £200M in 1959 compared to 208 managing £1.4B just 10 years later.
We run into problems when moments don't converge or do so at an unknown rate.
Maximising your happiness today/next week/next month is likely to have negative effects on your future bank account/health/relationships. This is fine if there is no tomorroW - but there is.
In the 80s, money flowed to institutions (like pension funds and insurance companies) who then invested on the behalf of individuals. Ask your parents about their investing during this period – it probably only existed in the form of the company pension.
Today, one third of Brits say they own shares. Two thirds say they plan on owning shares.
In the real world, God sadly does not tell us what type of generating function we are dealing with.
Living only for tomorrow comes with its own problems. For starters, you don’t really know how long your life is going to be. Those who start work at 16 and save as much as possible in the hopes of retiring at age 35 may not make it that far.
In 1966 the London Stock Exchange published its first survey finding that 2M people owned industrial shares (3% of the population) and 800,000 held GILTs.
Investing has never been easier (or cheaper). Everyone now can be (and should be) and investor - including you.
We know how to generate endorphins within the next 10 minutes, sure. How to maxmise the total satisfaction of your next month, let alone your whole life, is less clear.
The average UK household is saving and investing £9 a week.
Knowing the likelihood of an event isn’t enough to make a decision. One also needs to consider goals, options, and consequences of one’s choices.
Money is time-discounted, "happiness" is not.
In the 60s, it was largely individuals who owned stocks, not companies. But this doesn’t mean that everyone was an investor. Investing was highly concentrated: at this time, only about 3% of the population owned about 50% of the stock market.
Spending money today has an opportunity cost – this cost is the returns one could have received in the form of interest on one’s money. This is why future money is worth significantly less to us today.
In the 80s, activity in the City flourished, ignited by abolishing fixed commissions on trades, allowing advice and trading to be done by the same person (sounds like a good plan), and opening the floodgates to foreign investment.
There are essentially three risk management domains that one can find oneself in: certainty, risk, and uncertainty.
Happiness is not time discounted. There is no reason (conditional on me surviving that long) that having a 10/10 day next year should be worth less to me than having a 10/10 day today.
The 90s was also the decade that retail investing as we know it was really born. During the dotcom bubble of the late 90s/early 2000s, “investors” would buy and sell shares in the latest technology company that was going to be the next “big thing" - sound familiar?
How do we know if we have enough data to determine the distribution? Well, that depends on the distribution. How do we determine the distribution? From the data.
If consumption equates to happiness, £10 spent today would result in the same happiness as £10 (in real terms) spent one year from now. But £10 one year from now is worth less than it is worth today because of real interest rates.
7 times as many Americans held shares by the end of the 1960s than during the height of the 1929 bubble.
It Ain’t What You Don’t Know That Gets You Into Trouble. It’s What You Know for Sure That Just Ain’t So.
Distributions can appear to be simple to deal with - until one observation comes along and changes everything.
This is why investing is so powerful: we can increase our future happiness by more than it costs to lose a little bit of happiness today.
Now, pension funds channel funds to these massive multi-national institutions to invest in across the globe. That’s where most of the investment comes from today (over 50% of UK shares are owned by international investors).
It’s all well and good deciding to construct a “passive” portfolio but unfortunately this leaves one major question outstanding: what should the composition of this passive portfolio look like?
Although it’s the general level of inflation that is talked/tweeted/worried about, it’s actually specific inflation that’s the problem (I don’t care about petrol prices rising if I don’t drive).
The less likely you are to need the money, the more incentives you have not to sell, the greater your desire for whatever goal you are investing for, the more disciplined you are, the less likely you are to sell prematurely.
Portfolio construction always has some kind of active and subjective component.
If the liquidation date of a portfolio is completely unknown, one must invest in assets that maximise the probability of real return regardless of liquidation date. But if the investment horizon is more certain, one can afford to tailor the strategy for that investment horizon.
The modern pension scheme system was not designed to deal with this volume of different pensions; it’s very hard to keep track of and organise.
When thinking about inflation hedges, the problem is that lots of things determine the price of oil, house prices, Ethereum, etc and lots of things also determine the rate of inflation.
There might be an objectively-best investing approach for each individual, factoring in socio-economic situation, goals, personality, etc. If one could accurately identify and communicate all of this information there might be some type of objectively-optimal approach.
In the UK, the share of total employment that is self-employment increased from 8.05% in 1979 to 14.81% in 2018.
There are always other assets out there that have probably returned more than those in your portfolio. Why are you not including Kenyan REITs in your portfolio? They have returned 529% over the past 5 years (don’t fact-check that)!
Assets that are easy to liquidate and funds that are easy to access have some degree of uncertainty about the investment horizon attached to them.
Investing in proportion to market cap implicitly assumes that those companies that have enjoyed the highest historical returns have the highest expected returns moving forward.
When people think about making an investment, they usually fail to consider one of the most important aspects associated with investing. You see, every asset exists on a spectrum of access: some are easier to liquidate than others.
When are you going to buy a house? When are you going to need that ISA money? When can you liquidate your pension fund? Only one of these questions has a (nearly) guaranteed answer.
One always has to make several layers of subjective judgement calls when investing. It’s just part of the game. It’s unreasonable to own anywhere near close to even a subset of global publicly traded assets, regardless of what criteria you select.
Like companies eliminating candidates arbitrarily simply to reduce their filtering workload, we can reduce the number of options we have by restricting ourselves to assets available on certain platforms/exchanges, assets that meet certain criteria, employing principles, etc.Every decision has some type of cognitive load. Minimising superfluous decisions allows your brain to focus on more important things.
Just because the market returned 10% over the last 20 years, doesn’t mean that this is your return, even if you were invested over the same period.
“Kidneys increases your chance of getting kidney cancer by 10%!”. If your chance of getting kidney cancer is 10/100000, eating kidneys will increase this to a whopping 11/100000.
Most people would acknowledge that they check the news probably a little too much but have no idea of the actual extent of the semi-addiction.
One of the major themes of retail investing in the last 50 years or so has been a transfer of control from institutions to individuals.
No matter how good of an investment X is in the “long-term”, if it hits a certain drawdown limit, you may be forced, mathematically, financially, or emotionally, to liquidate your position(s).
What actual, material, fucking real benefit has being familiar with current events actually brought to your life. My guess is not a lot. If any.
Think about a scammer back in the good ol’ days – how would they operate? Hang around at gentlemen’s clubs and try to silver-tongue rich old guys into poor investments/ponzi schemes?
Information for retail investors leads to overconfidence, over-exposure, and over-trading, which lead to under-performance.
FIRE can remove your money problems, sure. But our brain has a knack of highlighting other problems to fill the gap in the money-sized hole in the Corpus Callosum or wherever problems are stored.
Let’s say total time spent checking the news per day was 30 minutes (I’m underestimating) and you earn £10 an hour (I’m underestimating). This means that you’re spending the equivalent of [5x7x52=1820] £1,820 on news consumption every year.
On average, the average person is more aware of the possibility of investing in your average set of financial products – 75% of young people in the UK have invested or are considering investing.
Your returns are heavily influenced by when you sell. You might not be in control of this sell time.
There might be some combination of mind-numbingly-predictable lifestyle plus psychopathic financial discipline that means unplanned liquidation is an unlikely scenario. But even then, unforeseen events (such as global pandemics) can ruin the party.
A baby-faced 18-year-old interested in investing can access books, courses, excellent blogs, average blogs, government websites, free helplines, reddit, twitter, youtube, discord, etc. All at the price of exactly £0 or very close to £0.
The news is unfiltered, semi-filtered at best. What effect does a story about Meghan Markle’s left fourth toe being slightly shorter than it should be have on anything you care about? Not an awful lot.
One of the reasons why passive tends to out-perform. Psychological advantage. If you buy and sell in a robotic manner, actions and opinions of humans won’t influence your decisions.
The global economy, and financial markets by extension, are becoming increasingly interconnected. So when one asset starts to tank, others decrease in value leading to yet others decreasing in value, etc.
Granted, that pile of wonga stored in that obviously-behind-the-painting safe in your master bedroom will maintain its nominal value of £193,520.20 when the financial shit is hitting the financial fan but this doesn’t factor in the certainty that fredos will be £17.99 in 2027.
FIRE gurus present inductees with a false dichotomy – work hard for 20 years at a job that you don’t love, fascistly save, retire on a low-ish income OR work for 50 years at said job, whilst not being able to save enough because you spend too much on stupid shit.
“Hey, yes, Haydn, but Haydn, remember that time when I saw the news about event X and so sold Y and so prevented me myself and I from being negatively affected by the downward movement in the price of Y?”
You may be able to collect positive real returns 95%+ of the time, but this comes with either tail risk or an effective upper-limit on returns (or both).
The transition to individual-led investing forced institutions to provide better products and services for individuals. Retail investing has never been cheaper, easier, or more multifarious. Ever.
Every second you spend consuming news, thinking about current events, small-talking about the latest story, you could have been reading/thinking/talking about something else.
Even learning a good amount about investing can get you into trouble. This typically leads to overconfidence which leads to improper risk management, over-trading (frequency-wise), and over-investing (value-wise).
Shit happens, causing earlier-than-planned sell-offs and potentially severe losses on investments that you’re “holding” for the “long-term”.
FIREees get itchy feet. This is why many of them work on new “projects” which eventually become income-generating. So what exactly was the point of saving aaaaaall that money to RE if you’re going to be working and generating income, anyway?
Using increasingly partitioned periods lends increasing weight to frequency of outcomes and masks significant downturns.
Shit happens. Things change. In complex domains, where outcomes and probabilities of said outcomes are unknown, it’s better to be robust than optimised.
A leveraged position leaves you extremely susceptible to decreasing prices. If the chosen asset isn’t the best thing since sliced bread, your leveraged position will be toast.
"Why on Earth would you invest in anything else other than the stock market? It’s never gone down in a 20-year period, I expect this to be true moving forward, why wouldn’t it be?"
If I wanted to increase my net worth I could murder my grandmother, blame it on my dodgy cousin, invest the substantial inheritance (I am her favourite) and reap the rewards 20 years from now. Life isn't all about net worth.
Snake oil salesman, charletons, scammers, get-rich-quick-scheme-peddlars, celebrities, even, fuck me, INSTRAGRAM INFLUENCERS are trying to con you. All the time. 24/7/365.
Getting an extra 0.5% out on your savings is cool but irrelevant if you have the wrong lifetime investment strategy.
Surface-level financial information is abundant. *Good* analysis of complex issues in retail investing is rare.
An investment horizon makes life easier on the front-end but harder on the back-end.
An investment must be *primarily* for increasing/maintaining wealth. I don't count purchases without this condition as investments.
You can accumulate all the wealth you want but if you make bad investments it’s going to evaporate rather quickly.
Most blogs give you the exact steps of *how* to invest without really explaining why.
If you purchase a bottle of wine for pleasure, that’s not an investment. But if you purchase that very same bottle and store it in a a cellar hope that it will be worth more in 20 years time, that is an investment.
Life is long. It's literally the longest thing you will ever do.
We are trying to analyse our investment options, picture the possible outcomes, and act in such a way as to reduce the probability of an unacceptable outcome.
It is better to still be in the harbour than at the bottom of the ocean. But ships were designed to sail.
An extra 0.5% don’t mean shit if your portfolio crashes in value just before you planned to make a big withdrawal.
Extending investment horizon reduces the relative impact of short-term fluctuations.
Is inflation the main thing all investors should be worried about?
When you reduce the distribution of possible outcomes to a single number, you lose information.
Reminder: Jorian and Goetzmannfound that for all countries they looked at from 1921 to 1996, the median real return was a mediocre 0.8%.
The economy is not a machine. The same inputs lead to different outputs.
Many developed nations are facing a birth-rate crisis. A lower population means fewer consumers of your product, less revenue, and lower profits.
To mitigate risk, one must first recognise risk. The first step is recognition.
“the market has historically risen 7% and will therefore always go up 5% in the long-run”
Broadly speaking, I see no clear reason *why* it will *necessarily* be the case that a stock market will go up in the long-term.
Stuff breaks down at the limit. But that's fine - life happens before the limit.
Reality isn’t a backtest. It isn’t an academic exercise. It isn’t theory.
If you can access your account, you are always in danger of liquidating your positions at some point for some reason.
Reminder: some markets have not risen in 50-100 year periods.
Empiricism can 1) disprove and 2) point us in the direction of the truth. It cannot create truth.
If your brother needs cash quickly to pat off loan sharks I hope you don’t deny him this because the required liquidation doesn’t fall in line with your investment strategy.
Do I believe the stock market of any single country is guaranteed to rise over a 50-100 year period? No. For the global market this is less clear.
When you invest in a "Global" Index Fund, you’re investing in North America, Western Europe, China and Japan.
If your Index Fund decreases by 50%, you still in? “Yeah bro, I would just buy more!”
Some PMs can outperform the market. But can you select these PMs a priori?
principles --> strategy --> tactics
Active management works but that doesn't mean most people should use it.
The market is very good at destroying profitable strategies...eventually.
Just because a strategy is working for some people, doesn't mean it will work for you.
Managing your finances should take a few hours a month.
Most of the patterns we see are not real.
Are bubbles increasing in frequency?
Just give us some history of returns and a good-enough reason. Risk management goes out the window.
Evolutionary speaking, if everyone else is doing something, it’s probably a good idea even if the reason for doing so isn’t immediately obvious.
People buy on emotion and construct logical reasons for doing so after the fact.
History shows us what can happen, not what will happen.
If you want to be rich, get rich friends. If you want to be happy, get poor friends.
‘Dumb’ people are not as dumb as you think they are and ‘smart’ people are not as smart as you think they are.
It's impossible not so see “the price has risen dramatically for the last 5 years in a row” and subconsciously infer from this that “the price will rise next year”.
First, ensure you aren't taking fatal risks. Then you can worry about returns.
What is the reason behind the correlation? Does it hold over space and time?
The real world isn't a sanitised experimental environment, kids.
Reminder: the purpose of investing is to make your life better. If a position is causing pre-mature hair loss, it's not worth it.
Risk comes first.
Rate of return is important, sure. But you also have to have something to apply that rate of return to. Saving is very important too.
Timing of returns matters just as much as their sizes.
There is no out-and-out obvious winner when it comes to savings vs rate of return. What does seem to be true is that the effects of the growth rate dominate as the time horizon is extended.
If we are faced with a lot of uncertainty, we must focus on outcomes rather than the probability of these outcomes. The former is significantly more graspable than the latter.
Incentives distort information.
Data doesn't exist in a vacuum. What you show and how you show it is as important as the actual data.
A top-down approach looks great on paper but can fall apart in reality.
Worrying about tax efficiency, small differences in fees, choosing between two slightly different ETFs, etc. is irrelevant if your investment strategy is wrong.
Just build good financial habits. Results will come.
Using ‘required return’ to make investment decisions can lead to disaster.
Focusing on details and small wins can get you in trouble. Anytime you focus on small gains you run the risk of arriving at a local maximum. You often need to step back to see the bigger picture.
You can’t really 'solve' retail investing. You can't come up with a strategy that will work for everyone at all times in all markets.
When you participate in retail investing you’re making two separate investments. You invest in financial assets, sure, but you also invest your time, energy, and mental focus into the act of deciding how to invest.
Your frame of reference is very important.  If your friends save religiously, you will feel guilty saving only £50 a month.
Everyone's finances look basically the same. Therefore, fundamental financial advice can be applied by everyone.
Be careful...those who spend too much time obsessing over investing can end up over-thinking, over-committing, over-paying...but not over-performing.
In 2019 32% of total savings and investments are held by ~1% of the UK population. 9% have no savings at all. 1/3 have less than £600 saved.
The vaaaast majority of people invest in their workplace pension fund's default scheme. People lack knowledge. And they're lazy.
Questions to ask when you see data. How was the data collected? What’s the time period? What are the units? Why are the axes like that? What is the story they are trying to tell?
At least financial data is pretty clean. It's pretty hard to fudge the price of Barclays.
No one is *forcing* you to invest. No investment is better than a bad investment.
The richest man in the world would give up all of his money to be healthy if he was on his deathbed due to poor health choices. Some things are more important than net worth.
Some retail investors don’t employ passive investing (PI). This is because they think they can out-perform this strategy by picking individual assets themselves. Professional investors also tend to sneer at its effectiveness.
Financial advice is not free and it’s not always good. This means that it’s better to manage your finances yourself. There are only a few niche scenarios in which this is not true.
Why do markets arrive at the “incorrect” price? Something about the information, or analysis, or research, or psychology, or cognition, or something else of some of the market participants is defective.
It doesn’t make sense to analyse our alpha-generating capacity in each particular market – who cares? I only care about the returns of my portfolio in aggregate and over time.
Financial advisers are subject to the same group-think that all industries are guilty of. If you want to fit it, get hired, get ahead, it’s useful if your ideas mirror those of your contemporaries. This leads to industry-wide ways of thinking.
Passive Investing is a way to automatically invest in companies that have performed well in the past and have continued to do so.
The financial advice you receive is also heavily dependent on who is distributing it. Advisers tend to recommend actions that are 1) reflective of their own personal attitudes to risk, asset classes, and life and 2) similar to recommendations given to other clients.
It’s not a problem for your adviser to try and generate returns. That’s their job. What is a problem is advisers taking on added risk to try and meet overly-ambitious goals or simply retain a client. They often end up chasing returns.
Because passive investing, done correctly, should be robotic and unconscious.
Some people just have 0 interest in personal finance and investing. They have better things to do with their lives, apparently. What could be better than thinking about tax efficiency and reading about bonds?! Lots of things, apparently.
Institutions have analytical, technological, and informational advantages…but not psychological.
Retail investors kind of sort of find themselves forced in some ways to use passive investing. There is no good alternative.
I get it. I get the fact that finance is boring. But what I don’t get is the eagerness to put your financial life in the hands of someone else. Blindly.
Financial hyenas can take a piece of passive capital flows. These hyenas know what companies are in/will be added to the index and the fact that massive, automatic inflows occur on a regular basis into these funds.
The amount of research required to determine if your money is in good hands or not is roughly equivalent to the amount required to learn how to implement a good personal finance and investing strategy yourself.
Don’t just think about your portfolio by itself, think about it within the context of your personal finance structure. Don't just think about personal finance, think about it within the context of your life.
Passive vehicles weighted by market capitalisation can become concentrated. This is because company size is not normally distributed, it’s waaaay more kurtotic.
Focusing on individual time periods rather than lifetime CAGR can also lead to psychological pain, because asset prices over small time periods are largely the consequence of noise rather than signal.
A major criticism of passive is the lack of tail-risk hedging involved in the strategy. Imagine the value of your portfolio decreasing by 20, 30, 40%. Now imagine this loss triggers an uncle point, or it happens just before retirement, or an emergency.
To understand what’s going on, what the fuck your financial adviser is talking about, if what he or she is proposing is a good strategy, you need to pretty much evoke all of basic personal finance and investing knowledge.
Passive investing isn't passive.
Advisers are good at details. They know how to minimise your taxes and which savings account will give the best interest rate at any given time. Hence, they can be useful when the situation is complicated and the details matter.
Blindly following a prescribed passive strategy is dumb. Dismissing passive as a viable strategy is also dumb.
Those who claim “I don’t have time to do my own personal finance, so I’ll just use a financial adviser.” aren’t thinking clearly. What they actually mean is that they don’t have time to do the required research for either selecting an adviser or doing it themselves.
You don’t know what you really like doing because you’ve spent the last 20 years of your life head-down, in the trenches, squirrelling away any extra cash and never taking the time to pause and think and explore to determine wait what do I actually like doing?
In times of market turmoil, passive investors are philosophically unable to divest. Some argue this white-knuckle commitment to holding a collection of stocks is an unnecessary and financially painful approach.
If you own the biggest companies in a certain geography, and the economy of that geography is growing, these companies are likely to be growing, too. This is collectively inevitable.
When constructing a portfolio, don’t think about each asset you purchase on a purely individual basis. Because we don’t care about the performance of individual assets, just the portfolio as a whole.
Companies only get accepted into indices based on a set of strict criteria. These criteria are only met by high-performing companies.
You have to think about your portfolio across time. Don’t just think about returns over the last month or last 3 years or the next 5 years. Think about lifetime CAGR.
Companies that have performed well might just have been lucky and due some type of regression-to-the-mean-type downward correction. As you grow large you’re also vulnerable to stagnation.
Imagine you owned an index that tracked the Brazilian stock market (boa sorte). An economic crisis in Brazil is going to tank your portfolio to a lesser extent if you also own some Japanese government bonds.
Consistent returns ain't free. They usually come with tail risk or an effective upper-limit.
Retail investing has never been cheaper or easier.
Every second you spend consuming news is essentially wasted time.
Learning just a bit about investing can be dangerous. It can lead to ignorance or overconfidence which leads to over-trading (frequency-wise), over-investing (value-wise), etc.
Stuff that happens outside of your portfolio can lead to early sell-offs and severe losses on investments that you’re “holding for the long-term”.
The more you split up observational periods, the more you mask the probability of negative outcomes.
Shit happens. Things change. In some domains, it’s better to be robust than optimised.
When using leverage, if the chosen asset isn’t UP ONLY, you'll eventually get into trouble.
Life isn't all about net worth. There are 100s of things you could do to increase your net worth that simply aren't worth your time.
Scamming is easier than ever. And scammers can operate all the time. 24/7/365.
Getting an extra tiny little bit of return is irrelevant if you have the wrong lifetime investment strategy.
Information about the *how* of personal finance and investing is abundant. Information about the *why* is scarce.
Goals are good but bad.
Something classified as an investment must be purchased *primarily* for increasing/maintaining wealth.
If you purchase a watch to flex, it’s not an investment. But if you purchase that same AP or rolly or Hublot and store it in a box hoping that it will be worth more in 20 years time, that is an investment.
Life is long-term.
Minimise the probability of an unacceptable outcomes.
Extending investment horizon reduces the psychological and financial impact short-term volatility.
What's the main thing all investors should be worried about?
Single-point estimates hide vital information.
You can't really run experiments on the economy. You have no control. Confounding variables abound.
To mitigate risk you must first understand where it comes from. If you don't understand this, you will be ruined eventually.
I see no clear reason why the stock market of a particular country will *necessarily* rise in the long-term.
Maths breaks down at the limits. But don't worry - life happens before the limit.
You can't backtest the future.
You are always in danger of liquidating your portfolio for some exogenous reason.
Empiricism can only be used to disprove, not prove.
Sometimes life doesn't fit into your investment strategy.
"Global" Index Fund = North America, Western Europe, China and Japan.
“Yeah mate, I would just buy more!”
Can you select out-performing asset managers a priori?
Active asset management works sometimes. Doesn't mean you should use it.
Just because a strategy has worked for some people in the past, doesn't mean it will work for in the future.
Managing your finances shouldn't take very long.
Most patterns are fake.
History of returns and a good story makes people lose their shit.
Our brain wants us to do what everyone else is doing. This is deeply ingrained.
History is about possibilities.
If you want to be rich surround yourself with rich people. If you want to be happy surround yourself with poor people.
Your smart friend/colleague/relative isn't actually that smart.
First, survive.
The purpose of saving and investing is to make your life better. And some good financial decisions might actually be making your life worse.
Investing is only important once you have some capital to invest with. Income and savings rate probably more vital.
Timing is crucial. A big drawdown just before the end of an investment risk can be catastrophic.
Data doesn't exist in a vacuum. How was it collected? By who? Why? What data are you choosing to show? How are you showing this data?
I favour a bottom-up approach. Build good financial habits. Results will come.
Required return is a flawed concept. Goals bend to fit reality, not the other way around.
Focusing on details = local maximum. Step back. Look at the bigger picture.
I'm sorry, but you can't come up with a strategy that will work for everyone at all times in all markets. Your investment strategy will always have to be adjusted to the environment.
Investing costs time and money.
Most people are in a broadly similar financial position. Same problems, same worries. This is why financial advice and information can be generalised and distributed.
Time spent thinking about investing is barely related to investing performance. Probably until some base level, then the correlation dissapears.
Do you know what your pension fund is currently being invested in? Most don't.
Gentle reminder that 0% return is better than -ve return. No one is forcing you to invest.
I'm sure Warren Buffet would give up half his net worth for 1 extra rotation around the sun.
In the US, 35% of employees earning $100,000 or more say they are living paycheck-to-paycheck. 36% of those earning $250,000 or more are doing the same.
What’s the best way to invest?
If you’re not careful, your minimum standard for *everything* in your life slowly starts to rise as your income increases.
Stocks --> probably likely to out-perform over the long-term. But return-sequence risk and returns not guaranteed.
Life-Cycle Investing in built on diversification and re-balancing.
You used to walk into a bar and enquire as to the cheapest lager available but now you order a G&T and don’t check the price as you tap your phone.
What if we just purchased progressively less volatile assets as you approach the end of the investment period?
There is nothing wrong with spending more when you have the capacity to do so…on things you care about. The problem is that when your income starts to increase, you suddenly feel like you *should* be increasing the quality of everything you buy because you *can*.
But Life-Cycle Investing is time-consuming, costly (transaction fees), and ultimately less effective than just buying stocks? Why invest in worse-performing assets?
The core approach of most retail investors should be the same: invest passively, regularly, and unconsciously.
Maxing for enjoyment leads to overconsumption of fattening food (rather than the nutrient-block-for-fuel savages like me eat). This makes you fat. A similar thing happens with spending.
NEW IDEA: line up all your possible investments from least volatile to most volatile, and map this line-up to your investment period, investing in the most-volatile assets first and the least-volatile assets last.
In a *fixed* portfolio, I only care about terminal value, not how I got there.
When you start investing, you want to be investing in high-risk assets.
All the funnest things to spend money on, you don’t actually need. These things are usually expensive too. It’s much more fun buying a designer handbag than buying a new lightbulb to replace one that’s broken.
How relevant are the returns of the 1700s to the markets of today? How about 1800s? 1900s?
Think about personal finance within the context of your life.
Is there something intrinsically unique about the US that leads to stock market out-performance? And will this continue into the future?
It’s easy, in a way, to put your head down and work hard and climb the corporate ladder in whatever industry you choose. Or to spend increasingly more on X, Y, and Z because everyone else is and you can “afford” to.
You must build good financial habits early, whilst you don’t need to. Because when you get older, it’s a lot harder to do so.
Are there logical reasons why stocks out-perform? Yes. Are there logical reasons why a specific market will return X% over a set period of time? Not really.
General personal finance and investing information works at a high level because everyone’s finances look roughly the same. But ultimately, you have to make some choices when it comes to some details and the actual implementation.
Passive Investing is a way to automatically invest in companies that have performed well in the past.
Advisers tend to recommend actions that are 1) reflective of their own personal attitudes to risk, asset classes, and life and 2) similar to recommendations given to other clients.
Trying to beat institutions is tough. They have analytical, technological, and informational advantages.
I get the fact that personal finance is boring. What I don’t get is the willingness to easily put your financial life in the hands of someone else with little-to-no due diligence.
Taking advantage of automatic passive vehicle flows is big business.
You can't decide if someone is going to manage your money well without knowing a lot about personal finance and investing yourself.
Think about your portfolio within the context of your personal finance structure.
Statistics is hard. Most patterns are fake.
Passive vehicles weighted by market capitalisation can become concentrated and not all that diverse in reality.
Reminder: asset prices over small time periods are largely the consequence of noise rather than signal.
Imagine the value of your portfolio decreasing by 50%. Now imagine this loss triggers an uncle point, or it happens just before retirement, or an emergency.
Passive investing is neither stupid nor magic. It's a tool.
One big downside of passive is it's inflexibility. No matter how much like a pile of crap what you're investing in looks, you're supposed to invest more.
I don’t care about the performance of individual assets, just the portfolio as a whole.
I don’t care about the performance of my portfolio next week, just the whole investment period.
The fact that retail investing has never been more accessible is both amazing and terrifying.
A little bit of investing knowledge can be a dangerous thing.
Robustify, don't optimise.
There are loaaaads of things you could do to increase your net worth that simply aren't worth your time.
Reminder: details don't matter if your principles are wrong.
Content on the *how* of personal finance and investing is abundant.
Goals can be good but bad.
"Life is short" - literally the longest thing you will ever do.
Extend the investment horizon.
I'm only worried about deep risk.
Any estimation or dimensionality reduction hides information.
No, sorry, you can't run experiments on the economy.
The future is hard. Just because a strategy has worked for some people in the past, doesn't mean it will work for in the future. Investing will always be somewhat of a gamble.
Give me history of out-performance and a good story and I'll rule the world.
Reminder: if you can't sleep at night, don't do it.
Income and savings rate are a lot easier to change than your rate of return. Act accordingly.
Data can be made to lie. Rarely is it ever communicated truly objectively. People always have an agenda.
Unpopular opinion: forget goals. Just build good financial habits - results will come.
Time and effort spent on thinking about investing is far from a guarantee of improved investing performance.
No one is forcing you to invest. Cash is very useful. No return is better than negative return.
Who knows all their pensions and what they are invested in?
In theory, investing is amazing. You ‘spend’ money today that turns into more money in the future. And because “happiness” isn’t time-discounted, this can be turned into more “happiness” than spending said money can today.
Investing is very hard and it’s near-impossible to tell who’s actually good at it and who’s a bullshitter.
I *know* what I want to spend money on today. And I *know* how much it’s worth to me. Fuck knows how much it’s going to be worth in the future, in every sense of the word.
Now we apparently “know” what to invest in. Just invest diligently and wait until your lifestyle can be afforded by the returns on your investments and it’s jobbie donezo. Investing is easy.
Debt in a currency that you don’t control like €€€ or $$$ is a different ball game.
I'm a paranoid optimist.
It’s hard to consistently invest a substantial amount. You have to get multiple things right – high income, low expenses, investing knowledge, right disposition, etc.
Diversify! Are you going to buy...everything? Ugandan government bonds? Pork belly futures? J D Wetherspoon plc shares?
Money in real terms is worth less to future you.
The obvious investing problems have been solved.
Derivatives? Good luck.
freddos cost 10p in 2000, 30p today, and will probably cost 40p in 2030 smdh
Hey you guess what 99.9999999999% of teenagers and kids won’t find personal finance interesting. Because it’s not that interesting, relative to how the universe was created or Shakespeare or mathematics, anyway.
Stocks are amazing! Ok but what happens when the management of a company collectively wet the bed? What happens when an industry perpetually declines? What happens when the population reduces?
10% of US companies disappear every year.
We can sample with replacement and overlay return periods, but it’s not the same thing as IID samples.
You can always make more money, you can’t make more time. Investing comes with an opportunity cost - the cost of spending money today.
What happens when the location that your house is in becomes less popular? Even though that's not very likely.
Teaching the safest and most-applicable stuff of personal finance and investing is boring but the fun bits won’t be useful and have the potential to be harmful.
Do we invest equally or weighted by market cap? Do we rebalance the portfolio? How often? Do we choose investment platforms that give us the most options or just do the best with what we have?
Pessimists are right *most of the time*, optimists get rich *if they have enough attempts and don’t blow up*.
The basics of personal finance can be taught in 37 minutes.
Is £100 more valuable to you today or in 20 years' time? Today (I hope), even adjusting for inflation.
Being blindly optimistic would mean you would probably blow up. At a minimum, this would mean you would take on too much risk. But being pessimistic comes with huuuge opportunity costs and probably negative real returns.
Try talking to a 13-year-old about pensions. Try and explain to your teenage cousin what ISAs are and why they are important.
Are you upgrading because you actually want to or because your friend just did?
If it makes you anxious you just couldn't afford it.
99% of people: invest passively, regularly, and unconsciously.
In a *fixed* portfolio, terminal value is the only thing that matters.
Young people should take risks.
All the funnest things to spend money on, you don’t actually need.
How strong would the arguments for stocks be if we assume the returns of the past are not relevant today?
Is the US market special?
Build good financial habits when you're still young and it doesn't matter as much.
Reminder: institutions have analytical, technological, and informational advantages.
Extending the time horizon reduces the noise.
Specific assets? Who cares? Just give me the portfolio P/L.
Obviously not everything that increases your net worth is worth doing.
HOT TAKE: (personal finance and investing) GOALS ARE (mostly) BAD.
Paranoid optimism.
I only worry about risks that can completely melt me.
Forecasting is hard. Investing will always be somewhat of a gamble.
No return is worth not being able to sleep at night.
I don't fear the man who can generate 20% returns. I fear the man who can increase his income by 20%.
Data can be bent and manipulated completely out of shape.
Every asset has problems. This is necessarily true – otherwise everyone would invest in the “best” asset and the price of the “best” asset would continue to rise to astronomical levels well above its fair value until it's yield made it an unattractive investment.
If AI can drive our cars and do our cooking and know what music we’ll like, surely it can invest our money for us, too?
1) personal finance and to a large extent retail investing are genericisable and 2) most people don’t know the basics. Hence basic knowledge can be applied to most people with relative success.
All you have to do is accumulate enough assets such that your expenses are covered by your investing total return (price return + yield), and you’ll never have to generate income again.
If your brother, your dad, your best friend, your flatmate, and your only friend at work all play golf...guess what you’re doing this Saturday.
It is simply not possible to feed models all the data in the universe – which would be required to predict market movements 10+ years in advance. There are simply too many interdependent variables.
You are the average of the 5 sources of interaction and information that you associate with most.
It’s sometimes hard to know if you’re doing “well” or if you’re “on the right track” (or not). One cause of this type of anxiety is income. I see this a lot: people wondering if their wage is “correct” for their age or location or hair colour.
When people purchase financial assets, they only really care about the return, how consistent this return will be, and how this return relates to the return of other assets in the portfolio.
It’s a seductive concept – just grind and save for 20 years and you can be free for the remaining 60.
The return of the FTSE 100 each year isn’t the result of a new trial. It’s actually affected by all the previous “experiments”, in ways we don’t understand. This is very hard to incorporate into models.
Personally I don’t really give a shit if returns for each individual month are good or bad. I care about the value of the portfolio over the long term.
One way to financial independence is to always have the ability to make more money. If I knew I could work for 2 weeks and earn £50,000, I wouldn’t have to do much saving or investing because I know I can just earn money when I need it.
Those who have more data, those who have better data, those who have more compute and storage, those with better models, etc. will win in a data-driven environment. SPOILER ALERT: that won’t be retail investors.
If I change A but nothing happens to B, surely A and B are unrelated? No, because of confounding variables.
The median weekly income for full-time employees in the UK was around £665 in 2022. Quick maths: £650 a week is £2,600 a month and £31,200 a year. But remember kids: that’s the middle income for *everyone in the UK*.
What happens when the machines take over? What happens when everyone’s investment decisions are dictated by AI?
