What is lifetime investing exactly? Simply put, it’s the mechanism by which you build wealth over the course of your lifetime. How can you do lifetime wealth accumulation? The answer is lifetime investing.
I consider health, wealth and happiness to be the fundamental components of life. Lifetime investing a huuuge part of that wealth component.
Don’t know what an ETF is? You will find your answer on google. What savings account is the best? There’s a subreddit for that. Which FTSE 100 ETF has the lowest fees? Someone wrote a blog post on it.
Having some fixed date to work towards (retirement, for example), can be easier both psychologically and strategically. Alas, life is complex. It is better to learn to work with this uncertainty than to ignore it or try to correct it.
I don’t have all the answers (yet).
My definition of an investment is the following: anything that you purchase primarily to either maintain or grow your wealth.
You can accumulate all the wealth you want but if it’s invested incorrectly it’s going to evaporate rather quickly.
Most blogs give you the exact steps of how to invest in an index fund without really explaining why. Not in a satisfactory manner at least. If they do offer any argument to the audience, it tends to be half-baked.
In my view, if you purchase a vintage Rolex Submariner for pleasure, that’s not an investment. However, if you purchase that very same watch and store it in a safe with the hope that it will be worth more in 20 years time, that is an investment.
“Life is short!” No, it’s not. It’s literally the longest thing you will ever do. Life is a reaaaally long game.
We are looking for a way to assess most of our available investment options, picture most of the possible outcomes, and act in such a way as to reduce as much as possible the chance of an unacceptable outcome.
It is better to still be in the harbour than at the bottom of the ocean.
Details don’t mean shit if your portfolio crashes in value just before you planned to make a big withdrawal. Getting an extra 0.5% out on your savings is cool but irrelevant if you have the wrong lifetime investment strategy.
Things that aren’t an investment: some short-term stock trading (retail), most sports betting, visits to the casino, buying new cars, most purchases of clothes, etc.
Every decision has some type of cognitive load. Minimising superfluous decisions allows your brain to focus on more important things – like who will win Love Island this year, whether you did actually leave the oven on, is wearing white jeans too much a social faux pas, and other important topics.
Things are investments: some art, some wine, some watches, cash under your mattress, money in your savings account that is currently yielding 0.01%, bitcoin (sometimes), Easyjet PLC, FTSE 100 ETFs, non-index-linked GILTS (good luck with that), etc.
Having a long-term lens acts as a psychological buffer. If you think about your whole lifetime as your investment horizon, yearly fluctuations really do become meaningless.
“The real risk in holding a portfolio is that it might not provide its owner, either during the interim or at some terminal date or both, with the cash he requires to make essential outlays” – Robert Jeffrey.
Lifetime investing is one of the most important things you will do in your life so you better figure out how to do it properly.
Inflation should be the main thing all investors are worried about.
Single-point estimators can be useful. But the fact remains that when you reduce the distribution of possible outcomes to a single number, you lose information.
People change. Are you the same person you were 10 years ago? I hope not. Is your life really that boring that you know for a fact that none of your plans will change over the net 10 years? Again, I hope not.
Jorian and Goetzmann studied the global performance of stock markets in the twentieth century. They found that for all countries looked at from 1921 to 1996 aside from the US, the median real return was a mediocre 0.8%.
The government and the central bank treat the economy like a machine that can be fine-tuned and controlled. These institutions have been playing with monetary and fiscal policy in a reckless manner.
The population can not perpetually increase. We are already seeing this in developed nations. A lower population means fewer consumers of your product, less revenue, and lower profits.
As soon as we understand the dangers of certain actions we can start to mitigate the risks associated with said actions.
Note: if you have non-human discipline and psychopathic commitment to not liquidating your account, this rule may not be applicable to you. I wouldn’t want to go for a drink with you, but you may not need to worry about liquidating investments unexpectedly.
“The market has historically risen 5% and will therefore always go up 5% in the long-run”. This is a dangerous assumption to make, for a variety of reasons.
Broadly speaking, I see no clear reason why it will necessarily be the case that the stock market should go up in the long-term. I see even fewer reasons as to why markets should return some set level of return “based on empirical evidence”.
Life happens before the limit.
Trying to eradicate the business cycle is an insult to the organic nature of the economic system.
If I draw 10 balls out of a bag and the first 9 have the value 1 but the last ball has the value of 10 then the average of the balls is 1.9. Investors in Ball Bag Ltd. think they’re getting a value of 1.9 when they invest but, in reality, they’re probably going to get 1.
This isn’t a backtest. This isn’t an academic exercise. This isn’t theory. If you can access your account, you are always in danger of liquidating your positions at some point for some reason.
Looking at history we can see that some markets have not risen in 50-100 year periods. I don’t see why this can’t happen again.
Growth at all costs via monetary and fiscal intervention severely distorts the natural processes of the economy. This sweeps risk in the system under the carpet and leads to ever-larger catastrophes.
Whenever we use empirical analysis for discovery rather than disconfirmation, we find ourselves on shaky ground. In most cases, we can only give our best estimate and acknowledge that we could very well be wrong.
If your ageing mother needs to pay for urgent medical attention I hope you don’t deny her this because it doesn’t fall in line with your investment strategy.
Do I believe the stock market of any single country is guaranteed, or close to guaranteed, to rise over a 50-100 year period? No. For the global market as a whole, however, this is less clear.
Price does not always reflect intrinsic value and certain investors have the ability to consistently profit from this mis-pricing. Those aware of the pitfalls of investing in active funds may be able to select the right funds, and may be able to beat the market by doing so.
When you invest in a Global Index Fund, you’re essentially investing in North America, Western Europe, China and Japan.
It seems arrogant to assume we know the future.
If your Index Fund decreases by 50%, you still in? What about 70%? 90%? Of course, everyone says they would never sell (“Yeah bro, I would just buy more!”). In reality, you might.
You’re less likely to do stupid things when you make decisions with your whole lifetime in mind. You’re less likely to panic, selling when everyone else is or buying when everyone else is.
Let’s say some managers can consistently out-perform the market due to skill (I believe this to be true). The question now becomes whether it’s possible to identify these out-performers a priori.
Strategy is derived from principles, not the other way round.
I don’t think most investors should be looking at active asset management as a viable investment option. There are simply too many traps, too many ways to be conned and too many ways to lose money.
Assuming you are going to be spending the majority of your life in one country, you should to be exposed to the fortunes of that country.
The market changes. Investors adapt. Specifically, the market is very good at destroying profitable strategies because as soon as a profitable strategy is known, it is instantly eroded as more and more investors attempt to exploit it.
Just because something is working for some people, it doesn’t mean you should jump on the bandwagon.
Determining whether a fund will have exceptional performance before it does is difficult. To do this, you need to be able to distinguish between out-performance due to luck and out-performance due to skill.
We must ask ourselves how we can invest to reduce the probability of an unacceptable outcome at any point over our lifetime.
Don’t waste too much time on things financial. Good financial behaviour is mostly about the processes you have in place, these require only a few hours a month to manage.
We are patter-recognition machines. We are so good at it that we see patterns that aren’t actually there.
From tulip-mania in the Netherlands in the early 17th century to the railway mania in Britain of the mid-1800s, to the stock market bubble of the roaring 20s in the US and crypto today, bubbles are common and seem to be getting increasingly more so.
As Keynes said, “Worldly wisdom teaches that it is better for reputation to fail conventionally than to succeed unconventionally”.
Give us a good-enough story and patterns that are later validated and watch all attempts at evaluating intrinsic value fly out of the window quicker than a cheating neighbour.
Although it wasn’t a bubble, there was something bubble-like about the Bernie Madoff Ponzi Scheme. It seems obvious now that the returns couldn’t be maintained and yet his investors included a whole host of reputable institutions such as HSBC and RBS.
Owning a property is the dream. But should it be? Most begin this financial journey without actually contemplating if it’s a wise financial decision or not.
Evolutionary speaking, if everyone else is doing something, it’s probably a good idea even if the reason for doing so isn’t immediately obvious. In hunter-gatherer societies, if all your mates start running, but you don’t know why, it’s probably best to start running anyway.
“Fuck it”, you say to yourself, “I’m in”. FOMO has defeated you again.
People buy first and construct reasons for doing so after the fact.
Bubbles have a kind of gravity: as the mass of investors in the bubble increases, the more those who haven’t invested are more likely to do so. These investors add to the bubble’s gravity, increasing its pull.
Most young people (aside from the lucky bastards who got rich) who want to buy a house are faced with the same seemingly-unsolvable problem: lack of capital. Luckily, in finance, there is a well-established, tried-and-tested, trump card in this situation: leverage.
History shows us what can happen, not what will happen, not even necessarily what is likely to happen. 
We are greedy and envious creatures. If your friends and getting rich, you certainly don’t want to miss out.
In general, ‘dumb’ people are not as dumb as you think they are and ‘smart’ people are not as smart as you think they are.
Although you are likely to spend less money renting, this isn’t our primary concern. What we are really interested in is - what is the better deal?
Much of what we know we can’t express in words and doesn’t seem logical on a surface level.
Our brain processes “the price has risen dramatically for the last 3 years in a row” and infers from this that “the price will rise next year”.
As a financial transaction, owning vs. renting is unique. For a start, it’s probably one of the biggest decisions you will ever make.
The market continuously self-corrects through this relenting mechanism of price discovery.
What, exactly, is the logical reason why adding observations adds certainty to our conclusions?
Managing your portfolio is about managing the risks associated with your portfolio. First, ensure you aren’t taking risks you cannot afford to take. Returns come second.
First try and understand the reasons for the correlation and then check that the correlation holds across time (out-of-sample data) and space (different geographies and assets).
Risk refers to contexts in which the generating function is known. Uncertain domains encapsulate everything else.
Could you imagine a world in which Google is viewed as a safer investment than the US government? I certainly can.
The real world is not a laboratory; experimental conditions change mid-way through the “experiment”. This leads to overconfidence in inductive conclusions.
For memes: take a small position and have clear, strict rules about how and when to liquidate your position.
The purpose of investing is to make your life better. If a position is causing you to stay up at night, spend all day looking at the price, or pay even less attention to your boyfriend's boring stories, it’s probably not worth it.
Uncertain environments may call for some other technique to manage risk outside of probability and statistics.
See what risks you can afford to take before worrying about potential gain.
Your savings rate is as important, if not more, that your growth rate.
The sequence and timing of returns matters just as much as their sizes.
When it comes to savings rate vs growth rate, there is no out-and-out obvious winner. What does seem to be true is that the effects of the growth rate dominate as the time horizon is extended.
If probabilities are largely unknown and we are faced with a lot of uncertainty, we must focus on outcomes rather than the probability of these outcomes. The former is significantly more graspable than the latter.
When incentives are involved, information gets distorted. And incentives are always involved.
One does not invest to make wealth. If you want to make wealth, there are plenty of other ways to do it. Invest to preserve/nurture wealth, not create it.
Assuming that one can improve significantly by committing time/effort, is this time/effort commitment worth it in terms of increased return? Vital, neglected question. Again, in most cases, I would imagine the answer is no.
I question how useful people learning about complex financial products is to their pension investments or their personal finance structure.
Turns out saving is fairly important.
If you are saving for retirement, you have to avoid taking risks that might make your pot worth a lot less than you need it to be worth when you need to access it.
People literally get paid billions of pounds to go from a rate of return of 5% to 10%. And they still fail, most of the time. Going from a savings rate of 5% to 10% requires some minor lifestyle adjustments.
Retail investors are agile. Most professionals have the turning circle of a double-decker bus.
Even if you’re able to generate pretty remarkable returns for a sustained period of time (very, very unlikely), it doesn’t matter if you’ve got nothing substantial to grow. 
Data can be massaged to sell anything one is trying to flog.
A rigid top-down approach can give you a false sense of security, especially if your assumptions are slightly off.
With the wrong principles, you aren’t going to succeed regardless of how flawless your execution is.
Don’t know how to invest? Search the internet. Think it’s too expensive? Use a 0-commission broker. Don’t have much capital? You can start with £1.
No one is trying to solve retail investing.
In fact, this increase in knowledge can lead to worse returns. Higher confidence in decisions leads to over-exposure in positions. It also typically results in over-trading with the resulting costs harming returns.
Everything has a degree of uncertainty attached to it.
Worrying about optimising for tax efficiency, small differences in fees, choosing between two slightly different ETFs, etc. is irrelevant if your over-arching investment strategy is wrong.
Goals? Who needs goals? The emphasis is on building good habits – what you actually do with the money is secondary.
Ambitious goals can lead to over-investing. Chasing returns is a fool’s game and using ‘required return’ to make investment decisions can lead to disaster.
Focusing on details and small wins can get you in trouble. Anytime you focus on small gains and optimisation you run the risk of arriving at a local maximum.
In some ways it’s an intractable problem: you can’t really solve retail investing. This doesn’t mean that it’s not worth spending time thinking about.
One should always be open to the possibility that principles can change - and the degree of belief surrounding those principles can change, too.
When you participate in retail investing you’re actually making two separate investments. Sure, you invest in shares, bonds, real estate, options, shitcoins, etc. but you also invest your time, energy, and mental focus into the act of deciding how to invest.
Poor calibration can lead to bad decisions. If your friends refuse to save, for example, you could be chuffed with your monthly £50 in savings when in fact this is probably painfully inadequate.
The main benefit of a top-down approach is that it gives you something to work towards. It gives you a reason for why you can’t go out this Saturday or why you and your boring boyfriend-soon-to-be-husband decided not to go on holiday this year.
In reality,  things are a lot more normal, stable, and homogenous. Everyone’s finances look roughly the same.
You don’t want to be the guy with 7 figures in the bank who still drinks carling tinnies, even though you don’t like the taste, just because they are marginally cheaper.
Although we will not be able to arrive at some formal definitive proof, we can still increase the probability that our solution is correct (or less likely to be disastrous).
This field, like most, is largely composed of opinions. Probabilities are unknown. General advice is pretty useless. No one knows the answers.
It seems to me that those that spend more and more time thinking about investing can end up over-thinking, over-committing, over-paying…but not over-performing.
According to the FCA, 32% of total savings and investments are held by ~1% of the UK population. 9% have no savings at all. ⅓ have less than £600 saved. Even more – 41% – don’t have enough savings to live for a month without income.
How do savers utilise freedom to choose? By not making a choice. Research suggests that up to 98% of defined contribution beneficiaries invest in the default fund
As with most things in life, when two diametrically opposed viewpoints both seem reasonable, the truth is probably somewhere in the middle.
Investment platforms are becoming the dominant force in retail investing – the market has doubled since 2013 from £250bn to £500bn in assets under administration. In 2019, these platforms had a 49% share of total gross sales. The top 4 platforms are predicted to hoover up 75% of market share by 2022.

We are playing not to lose, first and foremost. Prudence is a necessity.
How was the data collected? What’s the time period? What are the units? Why are the axes like that? What is the story they are trying to tell?
What about the non-financial factors that affect financial decisions?
No, “trust in science” doesn’t always work if this means believing the results of every “statistically significant” experiment.
Just because the market returned 10% over the last 20 years, doesn’t mean that this is your return, even if you were invested over the same period. You may have bought and sold at different times or transaction costs (both yours and the funds’) and taxes may have reduced your returns.
Financial data tends to arrive problem-free. The closing price of Tesco is the closing price of Tesco, it’s pretty hard to fuck that up.
No one said you have to invest. No one is putting a gun to your head and forcing you to buy FTSE 100 ETFs.
We are bad at estimating: research has found that we can’t estimate the calories we consume and expend exercising, for example. And we are over-confident about these bad estimations.
The richest man in the world would give up all of his money to be healthy if he was on his deathbed due to poor health choices. The best football player in the world at any given time might still be unhappy if his wife cheats on him or his mother doesn’t like him.
What if asset X suddenly drops massively in value? What if the company goes bust? What if the government devalues its currency or defaults on its loans?
Is it harder to predict the price of BT or a global ETF? It’s not immediately obvious. The price BT surely has fewer determinants but is probably more sensitive to random events. It’s hard not to see a global ETF increasing in price.
Numbers are much less effectively used when it comes to representing data. We would much rather see a pretty picture – it’s easier to process and looks faaaaar more convincing.
Sleepless nights and perpetual anxiety really aren’t worth it in most circumstances.
“Red meat increases your chance of getting kidney cancer by 10%!”. This number probably looks a lot scarier than it actually is. If your chance of getting kidney cancer is 10/100000, eating red meat will (according to the research) mean that your chance of contracting kidney cancer will increase to a whopping 11/100000.
The statistician is not really concerned with why smoking causes lung cancer, only that there is statistically significant evidence that it does.
You only get one chance at lifetime wealth creation.
The same set of data, even without the use of statistics, can be used to tell multiple different stories. Many of these will be wrong.


